Date: Feb, 25, 2025

	
	Today, I learned the importance of approaching problems in an ordered way. I also realised that rushing into solve a problem without a clear plan leads to wasted time and unnecessary efforts. If the problem seems confusing or if I don't understand it in the first time, I Should take the time to read it again and again until it makes sense. The more I break it down the clear it becomes. 	Once I understood the problem, the next step is to carefully list the constraints and limits that are the part of the problem. These are the rules and restrictions that need to be followed in order to arrive a solution. 
	After listing out the constraints, I should start thinking about the operations. I should figure out the steps needed to solve the problem. 
	Once I have understood the problem, its constraints and the operations available, I can move on to the possible solutions. There is always more than one way to solve a problem. I should think of different possible ways to solve the problem before starting to solve the problem. Instead of immediately choosing the first solution that comes to mind, I should consider multiple approaches. By considering different ways to tackle the problem, I can find a more effective and efficient solution.
	Also one of the most important things I learned today is that problem-solving is a that improves with practice. The more I practice tackling various types of problems, the better I get at thinking and finding solutions. Even if I don't manage to solve a problem right away, simply trying out different problems and attempting different approaches can improve my thought process. Over time, I can able to break down problems more efficiently and think more clearly. 
	The puzzles I worked on showed me that different approaches can lead to same correct answer and sometimes one method is faster or more efficient than another. When I got stuck I tried to approach the puzzle or problem in a different angle.
	I also learned that problem solving isn't just about solving something quickly, it's about understanding the issue and thinking solutions, learning from mistakes.