Date: Mar, 21, 2025


Today at the internship I learned so much about responsibility and ownership. I also learned many things about taking ownership of my life and to do things because I choose to do.

Start Liking What We Do

If we like what we do, we are more likely to put more efforts and improve in that thing. So we should learn to like things we do. Even if we don't like what we do, we can find ways to make the task more enjoyable by learning new skills or setting goals

Don't Do Things Because Others Say So
Many times we do things because someone tell us to do it. But simply following instructions does not help us to grow in the long run. We need to think for ourselves and think about why we are doing something. Responsibility means making our own choices and not just doing something because someone tell us to do something.

Don't Do Something Because of Guil
We often do things because we may feel guilty of not doing it. We shouldn't do that. We should not take on tasks out of guilt or because we don't want to disappoint others. We should do a thing or a task because we want to do it. We should not do things because we are afraid of what others would think or say if we did not complete the task.

You Choose You Do
Today I learned this phrase 'You Choose You Do'. It is a nice phrase. We should do things because we choose to, not because we feel obligated. If we do things because we feel obligated then that is not being responsible of not true ownership. When we control the choices we make, we naturally become good at the task.

Taking Ownership of Your Life
Taking ownership of our life means that we are in charge of our life. If we want to grow, we need to stop making excuses on things that has already happened. We should start taking control of our life.

Learn To Love What You Do
Some times we have to do things that we don't love or don't enjoy. But instead of complaining we can find ways to make those things or tasks more enjoyable. Even if the thing we need to do is not our passion we should approach it with curiosity and a clear mindset.

Responsible People Gets More Responsibilities
I also learned that people who are responsible gets more responsibilities with time. In other words, people who are responsible get more opportunities to grow in life. If we prove that we can handle things well, people will trust us with bigger tasks. This means grown, opportunities  and learning.

Be Curious and Self Motivated
Being a responsible person doesn't mean doing things that is expected. It's about taking initiative in doing things. People who asks questions and have an interest to learn and stay curious will grow faster than those who just do the things that they are told to do. High agency which is the ability to take action is a character of a responsible person. We should wait for others to tell us what to do next. We should take the initiative. When we are self motivated, we don't need someone to constantly push us to do something.

Overcoming Inferiority and Keep Learning
Sometimes we hesitate to take on new things because we feel like we are not good enough. We should not doubt ourselves. The best way to overcome self doubt is to keep learning. No one knows everything. So what matters is the interest to keep learning and growing

Stepping Out of Our Comfort Zone
We often keep ourselves to the things that we are familiar with. But growth will only happen when we push ourselves beyond our comfort zone. It can be talking to new people, trying a new skill, stepping out of comfort zone will make us confident. We should expose ourselves to unfamiliar situations. The more we expose ourselves to new situations and new experiences, the more confident and adaptable we become.

So overall, today I learned that responsibility is not just doing what is expected or doing what we are tasked to do, it's about taking control of our life. By making our own choices, being self motivated we became more responsible and independent. When we do things on our own accord without other pushing us we will grow in our life.